9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong. [music] You're
watching the China Show. I'm Yvonne Man
with David Ingles.
>> Good morning. We're counting down to the
open of markets [music] in greater
China. Our top stories today, oil
surging above $100 [music]
a barrel. Stocks are tumbling on
escalating tensions, of course, in the
Middle East. [music] The conflict
forcing Gulf producers to curb output,
divert exports away from the Strait of
Hormuz.
>> A fuel crunch hitting several countries
[music] in the region and prompting some
to ration supply and take measures to
conserve energy. Also ahead, Iran picks
the son of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei as its
next supreme leader while keeping up
attacks in other countries across the
Persian Gulf. [music] And China's top
diplomat says 2026 could be a landmark
year for ties with the US despite their
differences over the war in Iran.
>> [music]
>> Welcome to the program. Monday morning,
markets are falling out of beds. If you
haven't had your coffee just yet, who
needs coffee? Just look at the oil price
right now. That's going to wake you up
substantially. Uh 20% to the upside on
West Texas, 20% give or take on Brent.
The spread between the two has now
effectively disappeared. Also looking at
energy prices coming across the screens
right now, and that's really leading to
risk assets being just taken off the
table right now as it pertains to equity
markets. We'll get to the dollar story
uh in a moment here. Let's have a look
at markets, please, if we can here. So,
Brent is 107, 108, 108 on West Texas
right now. We're coming off highs a
little bit as it pertains to those
markets. The equity market complex is
not doing very well as we speak. In
fact, US futures are coming up on your
screens very, very shortly.
Uh European futures are also on offer
quite substantially, too. We'll look at
Asia in a moment because Taiwan is
coming online. Uh,
the Nikkei was off 4 or 5%. The Kospi's
not doing as well. Dollar is still the
preferred haven
as it pertains to this broad aversion to
risk. Gold is the opposite. In fact,
gold is falling right now. And again,
the bonds are not acting as a haven
right now because it's an inflation
pinch. That's the problem. So, we're
looking at double-digit gains across
yield space in Australia right now. US
10-year yield up about five basis
points. A50 futures coming online. The
oil contract in Shanghai is about to
show up on your screens. Dollar China
and the fix will be very much in focus
and whether or not we will see an anchor
coming through in the form of that
midpoint today. Shanghai crude 15% to
the upside. We talked about the support
level last week. It doesn't seem this
will hold for now. The 100-day moving
average, we're trading below that on the
MSCI all country index. Given everything
that's taken place, some things get
tossed out the window when you have
triple digit on oil prices. And that's
what we have, of course, as we get
started today.
>> I think we wake up to this reality that
we're we're into the second week of this
Iran war and already you're seeing
people price in the probably the
worst-case scenario when it comes to oil
prices, right? I I didn't really think
that we would come back on this Monday
morning to see oil at $100, which people
were saying were quite elusive up until
now. So, uh we've gotten there.
Certainly, it's going to be a a time
before we just decide how long this
conflict is going to last, but it seems
like right now oil price traders and
really uh you know, people are looking
at these markets are are are not just
seeing this as a temporary sort of
conflict right now. Yeah, and at these
levels, right, oil becomes a political
point of conversation, right? It It
brings to mind, you know, uh on an FX
side of things, will people have to
intervene to stabilize current account
deficits? Does it become an issue when
you go into the midterms for Donald
Trump? Does it Does it incentivize the
White House to step back because oil is
is now a political problem, right? And
it also goes gets to do with the energy
mix of a country and you know, what you
can do in the meantime. Is it floating
storage? Do you mix with the energy mix?
Lots of components here. I mean, it's
it's the hit to oil infrastructure. It's
also whatever happens to the Strait of
Hormuz as you mentioned, but there's so
many other elements here. How much you
know, missiles and drones does Iran
still have in its you know, piles there?
So so that's going to be one thing to
watch. So many things to look ahead to.
We have our whole team to talk us
through all this as well. In the
meantime though, we're we're talking
when it comes to Asia Pacific stocks.
We're dropping more than 4% now. So
officially we are entering into that
correction territory. Taiwan, we saw
those futures were plunging some 7%
leading up to the open. And in Taiwan
seems to be taking us down to that
correction territory here in the region.
This is purely driven a lot of the moves
by the likes of those big heavyweights.
TSMC, it's the Samsungs, it's the SK
Hynixes that are really kind of weighing
on the whole region here this morning.
So for more on these developments, let's
bring out our team as I talked about.
Stephen Sabchinski leads our Asia energy
coverage. Laura Davison is our politics
editor. Yanting Tu is also our managing
editor for Asia equities. Stephen, let's
start with you.
We're waking up to this reality of a
$100 oil.
What what do we do now? What are what
are oil traders thinking about now?
I think the main thing that the oil
market is focusing on is what you've
alluded to before. I mean, how long does
this last for? Because that's the big
unknown here. I think at the last week
when this all started, when the strike
started, when when ships stopped going
through Hormuz, there people were
saying, oh, maybe $100 oil would happen.
This is when we were still at $70 for
Brent.
But the expectation was that this was
going to be a short sort of conflict
that this could be resolved relatively
quickly. Trump would end this. Maybe
there'd be a taco sort of event. Pull
out. Oil prices would fall again. We
haven't seen that. And now as these
strikes hit the wider region,
there are real fears that, okay, maybe
there is a peace deal. Maybe Hormuz does
open again, but what about the
infrastructure? If there's actual impact
on on oil tanks, refineries, production
facilities, anything like that, and the
risk of that continues to grow every day
as Iran continues these counterattacks
against its neighbors, that raises the
risk that this shortage, or rather this
output reduction, will continue. And so,
the market is really, really focused on
on these, you know, tit-for-tat attacks,
and and what potentially the Trump
administration will do to react. But, we
saw Trump tweet or post earlier
that that the $100 oil was a small price
to pay
for for Americans, for the for the
world, for ridding Iran of nuclear
weapons, which indicates that
he doesn't feel very pressured, at least
for now, to step things back despite the
jump up in oil prices.
Uh Stephen, can you talk us through as
well, and we've seen the spread close
between West Texas and Brent. If you
could maybe talk a little bit more about
why we're seeing that, and also to your
other point, how quickly does this
recede in terms of the news flow over
the weekend, right? You know, a lot of
the big producers have stopped producing
simply because storage is filling up,
and I wonder if we do get a quick
off-ramp, does that supply then make its
way quite quickly back into the oil
market, Stephen?
Yeah, no, that's a really good question.
Let me let me focus on that second part
of the question first, which is, you
know,
if you're shutting down production, it
isn't easy to bring it back, which is
why
people weren't shutting it down so
quickly.
The the the best thing to do when you
have an oil or gas-producing asset is to
reduce output to as low as possible.
Keeping it going, keeping the facilities
running. If you're a liquefied natural
gas plant, keeping the pipes cold, you
know, all of that is really key. Once
you actually shut in production, if
facilities if if fields are being shut,
if wells are being capped, that is not
an easy thing to fix. Um that is that is
something that will take um days, weeks,
depending on the asset, maybe months if
there's damage that needs to be
repaired, maybe they have to do some
maintenance on the facility, they have
to bring people back. Um when you
restart a facility, sometimes you need
special types of um
people there, special types of equipment
that you have to fly in um you know, to
restart some of these assets or go
through a commissioning period. It is
not an easy flip of a switch. These are
complicated machines. Now, when you look
at the WTI Brent spread, I think one
thing to focus on is that global markets
um oil markets are global. And there is
uh there was an expectation, I think, in
the market that with oil being so
readily available in the United States
that maybe the US would be somewhat
insulated, but the fact of the matter is
the US is a major producer and exporter
of oil, and it's connected to um to the
Brent markets as well. And I think there
was some sort of complacency in the
market expecting that the US is going to
be able to kind of weather the storm
when, in fact, when when the Strait of
Hormuz is shut, when the Middle East
sneezes, it affects the rest of the
world.
Laura, uh it seems like right now we're
we're hearing a little more about what
the succession looks like here. The the
son of the late Ayatollah Khamenei is
the new supreme leader. What do we know
about that? Could we call this some sort
of regime change or not? Um highly
unlikely that at least Trump is going to
consider this a regime change. You know,
this the son is someone who he was
actually asked about publicly several
days ago, said that he would be
unacceptable as a leader. Um you know,
the 56-year-old son is largely seen as
an institutionalist, someone who uh you
know, he's not been in the public eye
much, but close to his father and close
to sort of the the the military and all
of the the institutions that be in Iran.
So, unlikely we're going to see a huge
uh vibe shift there from uh from the
president, which or from uh the the new
supreme leader of Iran, which suggests
that that Trump is not going to be able
to frame this in any way, shape, or form
as a win. You know, we're kind of in the
point where you see different um top
officials in the US sort of trying out
different uh rhetoric to see if they can
maybe kind of get some sort of mission
accomplished off-ramp here and then so
far they've been unable to land anything
partially just because uh you know, they
they aren't haven't had any success that
they're really able to tout uh you know,
minus uh dropping some bombs and sinking
some ships. Yeah, I think there was a
earlier report separately I think on
along the same lines that it would be up
to the US president to determine the
terms of surrender of of Iran. Are
things about to get worse before they
get better or have we passed that peak?
Is there any information we have right
now to make that determination?
>> It's highly unclear. One thing though
that one everyone should be watching
really closely is this possibility uh in
story on the terminal from our
colleagues across the globe uh that the
US is looking at a potential uh special
forces operation within the country.
This would go after the enriched uranium
supplies. Um that really suggests that
uh that the US at least um is is
thinking about or or worried that
they're not able to do what they need to
do via an air campaign. You know, ground
forces has really been that red line.
Carolyn Levitt uh the White House press
secretary is re- recently as yesterday
said that ground forces were not part of
this. Uh you know, sending in troops on
the ground it's much more risky. The
chance for ca- chance for casualties
increases significantly. It also raises
the question too of you know, what's the
strategy after some sort of uh special
operation? You know, if it's successful
are they is the US then able to declare
victory and say, "Okay, we're out." If
it's not successful, then what's the
plan? Or you know, does Trump continue
on this path of regime change and still
you know, that you know, sending in uh
to try to destroy uranium supplies
doesn't address uh leadership at all in
the country. All right, Laura, that was
the obviously what we're hearing in
terms of the on the ground and and
really the politics around all this as
well. Let's talk about the markets and
what we're seeing, right? We talked
about you know, when it comes to the
region, the regional stocks already
entered into that correction. Taiwan is
also heading that direction here right
now. Let's bring in Lian Teng looking at
how things are going here right now.
Lian Teng, talk us through this price
action right now.
Yeah, I think uh as um you know, the
guests already mentioned, it's just uh
this really big recalibration that's
going on among investors that this war
may really be here for the long run uh
just because of the weekend news flow.
Trump is talking about expanding attacks
instead of winding down the attacks. And
also the appointment of the new supreme
leader in Iran. So, people are now game
planning the worst-case scenario and
they're selling uh stocks
indiscriminately indiscriminately and
especially those big large cap stocks.
So, you know, the big chip makers in
Korea and in Taiwan. And especially in
Taiwan, we're seeing the the worst or
the biggest outflows out of Taiwan last
week. That means people are really
locking in the winners that we saw this
year so far. And also for Asia as a
whole, Monday morning low liquidity that
exacerbates all the movements. But also,
Asia is a region that is the most uh
vulnerable to uh any shutdown uh for the
Strait of Hormuz because Asia gets more
than 70% of LNG and oil from that Middle
Eastern region. So, with this kind of
shutdown that we're seeing news outflow
out of Korea that uh the
the country is looking at oil price cap.
And this morning uh in Taiwan, we see
similar news. That's really sending the
signal to investors that inflation will
soon become a really big issue for Asia
economies if not for the world. And that
means Asia central bankers are really
having their hands tied.
Lian Chen, I'm just looking at futures
right now. Wild down. It doesn't seem
that China well, it's early, but it
doesn't seem like China is going to see
the brunt of the selling at least in the
magnitude we're seeing elsewhere uh in
the region. Anything specific that your
team is watching as we approach the
China open today?
Yeah, I think China is now considered to
be a relative haven. Uh Morgan Stanley
mentioned how China is a big winner out
of this energy crisis because China can
get oil from uh, Russia and Venezuela
and Iran all the global south friends
seem to be coming in handy right now. I
think people are still sort of
recalibrating what is the takeaway from
the NPC and so far it seems while there
is no huge surprise relatively speaking
China is better positioned just because
Chinese shares were sold off a lot more
if you look at HS Tech it was down 30%
from October uh, peak. So there is not a
lot more to sell and also overall tone
from the government is positive. We're
talking about tech. We're talking about
the robot. We're talking about a little
bit of a consumption and property
support. So just in relative terms China
all of a sudden looks a bit better.
Mhm. Uh,
Stephen I want to bring you back in. It
seems like a lot of the pain that we're
seeing is really focused on oil markets.
It's focused on LNG.
Is there a threat or a risk that this
could spread to other energy
commodities? When you take a look at
electricity, when you take a look at
coal right now, are we seeing any of
that?
Yeah, I mean yeah, it's it's all it's
all connected.
So yeah, there is a lot of focus on on
oil and and LNG.
But when natural gas prices rise coal
prices rise. We've already seen a jump
in coal prices and exported from
Australia. Obviously not affected by
what's happening in the Strait of
Hormuz, but they're up
to the highest level in years. We're
also seeing an impact on electricity
prices.
Now Japanese power futures, that's not
the price that people pay in their
utility bills, but it's the price that
utilities pay
to hedge their their power production
and and procurement. Power prices in
Japan are rising pretty significantly.
We've seen
a jump
over the last week of 20-30% for front
month futures for for that contract.
We're seeing
LPG prices which are used for cooking in
South Asia that rising as well and we're
seeing gas supply being curtailed to
fertilizer plants which risks increasing
the price of fertilizer, urea, anything
that's used for food production for
farms. So this does have a wide impact.
All energy markets are are
interconnected.
Steven Stopchinski, thank you so much.
Laura Davison just now as well alluding
to our team of course recovering all
angles to the story here as pertains to
these markets. Just in time in terms of
the midpoint out of the PBOC today
69158. This is important because Asian
effects is really on offer right now. In
fact the dollar is now up for the year
with the move we've seen in the last
since Friday
give or take. We're now looking at
substantial weakness coming across the
Asian effects complex and just on top of
that as well. It's also worth pointing
out that going into the open today we'll
be looking at inflation coming out of
China which is quite topical given of
course where the markets think inflation
will be moving forward given a spike in
energy prices.
>> Yeah, this may be the one in few sort of
economy that actually would welcome
possibly the surge in oil prices here
right now. But as you see right the
dollar is clearly the winner here. Oil
and dollar probably are the clear sort
of moves that you're seeing to the
upside. You are seeing substantial
losses here when it comes to EM effects.
In fact when you take a look at the
Philippine peso we're at a record low
here right now. So
we continue to see pronounced
appreciation pressures when it comes to
Asian currencies here this morning. In
terms of your agenda as well of course
we have to focus on not just the stock
route the impact on the RMB as well. You
know we're still dealing with the two
sessions right that actually kind of
still is going on this week as well.
Although the market has seemed to have
moved on to in some ways. Volatility
certainly is going to be the big name of
the game here today when it comes to
what we're seeing in Japan. We'll see if
the Hang Seng sees that pop as well.
We're watching those key sort of
technical factors here. So, 200-day
moving average for the HSI, that's going
to be a key focus whether we break it or
not. And of course, we're still looking
for some inflation data out of China
today. Yep, uh that's coming out in
about 13 minutes from now. Sectors to
watch for very obvious reasons, oil,
gas, precious metals might go the
opposite way given of course how gold
has been behaving as far as price is
concerned. Shipping and logistics, it
has everything to do with transport,
everything from shipping. I'd even toss
in airlines. Their financials might act
as a buffer. It's might and of course
CATL um if it matters in a day like
today is coming out with earnings as
well. On a day like today, I mentioned
that. Here's what you got as far as the
damage control or the damage is
concerned across these markets. [music]
Uh we're off
3, 4%, 4% now on the benchmark. We are
set to enter a technical correction this
early in the week. The opening bell 11
minutes away counting down there
Shanghai Shenzhen and here in Hong Kong.
This is
the China show.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Right. Uh welcome back. We're looking at
these markets and we're giving it some
time to really get warmed up. Uh we'll
need every warm up we can get. This is
more
not just a case of tendinitis. Uh that
goes away with a warm up effect. There
we go. So, we're now down 2.7%
in the pre-markets in Hong Kong and as
you can see that's really playing out
across these markets. The PBOC weakening
the fix as well by the most since
November of last well, November 2024
rather and that really is down to just a
big big move up in the US dollar, too.
That seems to be the haven of choice
right now. You're not seeing that go to
bonds. You're not seeing that go to
gold. Which is quite as given just the
run up I guess we've seen in in bullion.
So, certainly that is uh the the clear
expression that we're seeing across
these markets here is the dollar and of
course uh that spike in oil prices here
today. We did hear from Kevin Hassett,
the White House National Economic
Council director, and he says that he's
confident the surge in oil prices will
be addressed in the near term. He's told
Bloomberg that the Trump administration
has many tools available to tackle the
increase in energy costs.
We know that uh sometime soon we're
going to have a much more stable
Venezuela with high stable energy
output, a much more stable Iran with
high and stable energy output, which is
going to be very good not only for
energy markets, but for risk premia
around the world. Don't forget that this
move uh against Iran is happening
because they've promised to destroy us
all. Like, if if that's not something
that affects risk premia, I don't know
what is. And so, I think with an eye on
horizon, then you can see that this is a
huge positive for global the global
economy and global markets. The question
is uh you know, when will the current
near-term disruption end? And that's
something that'll be decided by the
military uh and they'll Of course, there
will be some uncertainty about when they
decide to move, in part because the
uncertainty protects the lives of
American soldiers. And Kevin, in the
meantime, But we expect that it'll be
resolved uh you know, quite soon. As you
say, we're starting to see a hit to
production because we can't move the
oil, we're breaching storage capacity in
select producers right now. You saw some
of that with Iraq earlier this week. The
general reporting moments ago, we're
seeing the same thing in QA and UAE, and
Saudi Arabia might follow. That's
obviously a bigger, more acute issue for
the Asian refiners right now, which is
why the Treasury Secretary came out and
issued a waiver for the Indians to buy
from Russia, the Russian crude that's
offshore in tankers right now. But
Kevin, I wonder what else the White
House has got in store, not just to tell
people to wait because in the future
it'll be better, but what are the
remedies that you can produce right now?
Oh, sure. The the you know, the the
sanction waiver that Secretary Blinken
came out with is just one of many, many
tools that we have ready. We've got a
whole flowchart of tools to use
depending on this or that, and we're
ready to move them
as soon as we have to, but we're also
very optimistic that we're going to be
able to get this near-term problem
resolved relatively quickly. The Biden
administration, as you know, burned
through the SPR, took it down quite
dramatically. Is there space left in the
SPR to deploy some of that to bring down
prices just a bit for consumers?
You know, there there is no conversation
right now to dip into that, but we've
got something like 400 million barrels
ready to go if needed. But there is
I re-emphasize there that there has not
been a conversation to dip into that yet
because our expectation is that this
effort in Iran is way ahead of schedule
and that we understand that there
near-term market fluctuations, but we
have our eyes on the horizon and we
think that's where people should be
looking to. Kevin, you say ahead of
schedule. Is there a schedule?
Yes, but but obviously we're not going
to go through the schedule on TV.
>> [snorts]
>> Right. If you're long Hong Kong markets,
close your eyes now for a preview. We
are poised to open substantially lower
this Monday. This [music] is Bloomberg.
Everything but oil
everything but oil today. As you can
see, substantially lower going into the
open today. Asia's down now 5% this
Monday. [music]
Yep. Everything but oil as Dave
mentioned. If you look at HSI movers
here this morning, it is really the
energy space that it continues [music]
to see upside here. You see CNOOC is up
some 8% here in the pre-market. We've
got the open coming up next. [music]
This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> All right. Uh brace yourself if [music]
you haven't buckled up already. Um we're
looking at
steep losses going into the open today.
Uh and we're actually on better footing
in greater China compared to what we're
seeing elsewhere across the region where
we're down 4 to 6% [music] across the
other major benchmarks. On Asia, we're
down about 5% on the benchmark itself
going into this open today. [music]
Yeah, as Lending mentioned, maybe
because just it's overall positioning,
right? Where China was already kind of
in some ways on [music] the weaker side
of things. Maybe that's why we're not
seeing as much impact as the Korea's, as
the Taiwan's are here today and are
reacting to, of course, this [music]
reality of a hundred dollar oil right
now. Uh we've entered into week two, of
course, of this Iran situation, and
[music] it doesn't seem like there is
any sort of easing in sight. So, that's
why you are seeing oil traders continue
to start to react that this might be
more than just a temporary sort of blip.
That we are pricing in more of a
prolonged scenario. And that's why
you're seeing the dollar pop, oil pop as
well. Everything else in terms of risk
assets are on offer here today. CSI 300,
there you go. Uh as we open the gates
here, we're lower by about a 1.3% here.
Shanghai composite, uh we're getting
close to that 4,000 level once again
here. Uh but bonds are not really kind
of reacting, right? Even CGBs. We are
seeing yields actually tick up on the
long end here this morning on the
30-year. And we're watching, of course,
Shanghai crude. We're up some 17% when
it comes to Shanghai futures for oil
here. So, really kind of not just kind
of reflecting what we're seeing in Brent
markets here, but in fact, the the the
the the the moves that we've seen uh of
late have also been even more in terms
of magnitude. Uh but right now, we are
seeing, of course, still reflecting that
20% pop initially that we saw in Brent
prices here. And are we starting to
price in sort of the the worst-case
scenario when it comes to oil markets?
cuz we talk about it's not just the
impact on Strait of Hormuz and whether
we do see it effectively shut right now.
We talked about some of these Iran
links, some of these China vessels are
still able to get through. So, the China
aspect of this is quite interesting as
well. But, also the damage to oil
infrastructure when you have the likes
of UAE, when you have the likes of
Kuwait also now halting oil production
in quite a substantial way and following
what we saw with Iraq already. So,
question today is will other nations
around OPEC plus continue here. So,
that's only one thing. Most large caps
are lower here. The chip space about
Capricorn Tech is down some three. So,
tech certainly is selling off here today
in a big way. But, as we mentioned,
right? It's everything but oil that is
indiscriminately selling off here. Let's
look at Hong Kong as we talk about here.
Now, we talk about, you know, Asian
stocks already are in some entering to a
technical correction. Taiwan also has
done that. If we continue, of course,
with these losses here. Hang Seng is
down some 3%. HS Tech, we're down about
3% as well. So, you know, it it really
is that single narrative right now that
we're seeing here. The weakness in the
yuan and RMB is quite prominent. We did
see one of the weakest fixing since
November of 2024 from the PBOC. We're at
>> [snorts]
>> levels here this morning. So, that flock
to the dollar continues here today and
really you're seeing everything get
swept away alongside with it. And we
said, right? It's the energy space,
right? Whether you take a look at LNG,
whether you take a look at, you know,
crude. That's where kind of that pain
trade continues to be here right now or
at least the one direction right now.
But, you know, think about what this has
the impact on electricity, what it has
on coal, especially here in China. So,
certainly that's one thing to watch.
Let's look at some of these energy
shares that we're seeing. They are the
clear sort of bright spot here across a
sea of red. And it's the CNOOC, the
PetroChina that were up some 8% in the
pre-market here right now. We are also
seeing that with the Cosby triggering a
circuit breaker. So, Dave, some more
pain following through in Seoul this
morning. Yeah, okay. So, we just hit in
fact that 8% threshold Yvonne on on
Korea. I mean, you're talking about how
this is really just just about across
the board right now. In fact, it's going
to come up on your screens right now.
Taiwan came online uh just this hour as
well. We're down 5 and 1/2% on that
specific benchmark. As you can see,
Korea's now 8%. We'll need to wait a few
more minutes, of course, before that
gets up and running yet again. Um that's
been quite common in fact the last
couple of days as that market has really
just also obviously taken off some of
the froth that's been built up given the
rally. Uh we talked about the Hang Seng
Index. Let's flip the page. Please have
a look at all benchmarks right now. V
Kospi's going to be very much in focus
and really this dynamic between where is
the haven showing up? It's showing up in
the dollar. And as you can see, not so
much in the gold price. We're up
substantially in terms of expected
volume many of these benchmarks. And in
case you're just headed to bed in the US
or in Europe while you're still up, um
as you look towards your Monday, it's
not looking pretty as you can see on the
screens. Futures are pointing to
substantial downside over the next uh 24
hours at least. Or I mean, we'll see.
It's it we're very headline risk in
terms of dynamics right here. Speaking
of headline risk and breaking numbers
coming through, we have inflation
numbers coming through. Decent ones as
well, actually.
>> Actually pretty decent, Dave. And we
were expecting a little better print
here when it comes to CPI prices. So,
1.3% higher when it comes to CPI for
China as in February here. So, that is
beating estimates. Uh there is that
Lunar New Year effect here. So, maybe
there there's some demand and base
effects to deal with from the the timing
of the holiday as well. But, you know,
we took a look at some of these
high-frequency indicators did suggest
that when it came to holiday demand,
that's what drove food prices higher.
And we talk about year-on-year gains in
vegetable and fruit prices, that
actually ramped up there in the first 3
weeks of February already. Factory gate
uh deflation at least narrowing as well.
We do We see that print now at -0.9%.
The estimate was for a negative print of
1.1%. So, you know, what has been
supporting that seems to be commodity
prices, right? Which have been firmer,
which have been led by oil as well. So,
that's why you are seeing when it comes
to PPI still a negative territory, but
less so, Dave.
Yeah, okay. Need to take a breath. Um
Don't we all? Yeah. 35 minutes into the
weekend. Kind of really need
uh the next Monday to really come. I
need the weekend. Okay, let's have a
look at if there is some level of
visibility across these markets
short-term. Uh and long-term really is
this a buying opportunity that people
have been waiting for? Do you buy this
dip? Uh let's bring in our next guest.
Silvia uh
is a global multi-asset strategist at JP
Morgan Asset Management. Uh is here with
us on this quite eventful Monday
morning. Very very nice to see. How are
you thinking about markets now?
So, I think if we look at what's
happening today, clearly the market is
repricing a more prolonged conflict in
the Middle East. And what we're seeing
across Asia markets, clearly is a
de-risking event happening. I guess for
us, when we look at this, uh
I still think it's too early to assess
what's actually going to happen in terms
of oil prices, whether we're likely to
see the persistence of oil price shocks.
I think that's really the key here.
Because if you look at historically,
when we look at geopolitical events,
they tend not to have a lasting impact
on markets unless they have that
sustained impact on micro fundamentals,
especially oil prices. I think that's
really what we're looking at right now.
>> What what's your base case now? How how
long this lasts? Is it weeks? Is it
months? I think it's very difficult to
talk about a base case right now, just
given how fluid the situation is. But I
think compared to last week, this is
definitely longer than what people have
been pricing in. And I think what
happened in the market is because we had
the flare-ups in '24, '25, and oil
prices failed to sustain any rallies
then. So, I think investors, their
initial reaction is to fade any of this
kind of geopolitical volatility in the
Middle East, but clearly if this is
wrong and this lasts much longer, we
could see the sharper reaction to this
just because how real assets are
positioned. I wonder if you've any
insights why the dollar is suddenly the
preferred haven asset and not and not
and not gold or is that just positioning
going into what happened? I think
positioning definitely plays a quite
important role here and if we think
about the dollar actually we had the
view as well more on a structural basis
dollar is overvalued and we see that
stronger fiscal stimulus elsewhere
creating a more balanced global growth.
So US is kind of growth advantage is
fading, monetary policy divergence where
Fed is cutting, ECB is holding, BOJ is
hiking. All of that points to a weaker
dollar. I think people are positioned
that way. Clearly in this round the safe
haven bid will push up the dollar.
>> So you're still maintaining this
pro-risk sort of tilt. Have you done
anything in the last week to kind of
change up your your holdings and where
is it where you're tilting towards you
now? Right. So last week no, we we
haven't really made any changes. So our
position in our multi-asset portfolios
is really based on the fundamentals. If
we look at the global economy is still
running at a pretty solid pace. If we
look at the PMIs that came out last week
still pointing to a pretty strong global
growth picture. So that's still
underpinning our pro-risk tilt here. And
from US kind of economy perspective we
still feel the recession risk relatively
limited right now at 15% recession risk
looking at the next 12 months. Clearly
that's not considering what potentially
could happen with the oil price. And for
us we were just monitoring the situation
last week. We don't think was a great
idea to really go into kind of any
portfolio changes given the volatilities
we're looking at. Um it's obviously very
difficult to time the bottom in in the
market. Uh but for people who are
tempted to buy this dip or at some point
get in and deploy deploy some cash, what
looks attractive right now?
I think if we look at the markets right
now, clearly we see kind of Asia selling
off a bit more compared to other
markets, at least so far. US is a bit
more contained, but do you think we need
to put that into context of how oil
prices affecting the fundamentals of the
different economies. Asia as a whole is
likely to experience more negative terms
of trade shock. If we look at a 10%
increase in oil prices, Asia's current
account deficit is likely to widen by 30
basis point. So, it is to some extent
reflecting that fundamental that Asia is
likely to be hit harder because they are
oil importers mostly here. And US
clearly has that big oil and energy
factor that is likely to benefit. I
think to some extent it's reflecting
that, but we do need to get a bit more
clarity of how persistent that oil shock
is likely to be. It seems like we we we
you know, analysts talk about the impact
on Asia, certainly that's one thing. Uh
Europe certainly will take a big hit
from all this. I know you have a very
contrarian call on Europe.
>> Right. This year. What what's what's
sort of the case that you you're
building around Europe?
>> Right. So, it's more fundamental if we
look at soft data, clearly turning PMIs
getting better. And we do think we're
starting to see that the impact of
fiscal stimulus coming through in
Germany. So, that's really one where we
do think supports that growth recovery
starting in Europe. But Europe does have
that weakness where it's very exposed to
energy prices, especially natural gas.
So, that could definitely be a catalyst
that would kind of dial down our
optimism on Europe. Okay, Silvia, thank
you. Silvia Sheng there, global
multi-asset strategist at JP Morgan
Asset Management. So, we are looking
when it comes to bonds for in particular
here today, right? So, when you look
across the curve here, you are
continuing to see that melt up in
yields. Look at the Aussie 10-year
yield. We're up some 13 and a half basis
points here right now. So, certainly
there is that possibility people are
pricing in what central banks are going
to have to do given that inflation
expectations are now continuing to rise
with the price of oil here. So, we're at
418. We're We're getting close to 4.2
levels for the US 10-year yield as well,
Dave. Yeah, uh I think it's May now
that's fully priced for the next move
coming out of the RBA, which is to the
upside. I think when you look at the
dynamic pricing around Europe, a full
hike is now priced for October. Uh the
BOJ, of course, is a separate
conversation because we've been
expecting hikes there anyway. Uh the
Bank of Canada's interesting, not a full
hike just yet, but we're effectively
base case now based on the current
pricing. This changes, of course, uh by
the minute. About 70% chances of a
>> [music]
>> rate hike in December. Right, lots more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Right, welcome back. That move you see
on your screens, that's not a week to
date, a month to date, a quarter to
date, year to date. That's today.
Oil prices are up 20%
at the open. Massive gap higher given
events over uh the weekends. Uh energy
buyers across across the region are
feeling the impact of the supply crunch
due to, of course, what's taking place.
Disruptions being priced, freight costs.
Yeah, let's uh let's bring in our oil
trading reporter for the Asia Pacific.
Wang Wei Neo is is with us out of
Singapore, and I'm sure your team has
been extremely busy this morning. Take
us through what conversations you're
having amongst yourselves and with the
people you speak to in the market, Wang
Wei.
All right, so of course, um oil hit a
milestone like uh you pointed out
earlier. Uh oil is above $110 right now.
I wouldn't say this is unexpected. Uh
towards the end of last week when prices
uh kind of softened uh on the back of a
lot of assurance coming out from the US
Trump administration
such as providing assurances for ships
going through the Strait of Hormuz as
well as Trump's latest move to allow
India to purchase
Russian crude barrels to alleviate the
supply crunch. But over the weekend, of
course, we saw many more attacks happen
which resulted in several um
Middle Eastern oil producers cutting
back on production.
So naturally when
the markets open today,
we would have expected to see a spike.
But of course this level of magnitude
did took us by surprise.
Walk us through what what some of these
Asian economies are doing here right
now. Obviously, these are big importers
of of Iranian oil in terms of rationing
supplies, conserving energy. What what
are they doing now?
All right. So actually the main impact
on Asian buyers is more on the fact that
a lot of these economies are highly
reliant on Middle Eastern oil. And of
course the cascading effect is
naturally it also led to a surge in a
lot of these oil product prices such as
jet, diesel. We have seen all those
skyrocket in the past week. So for a lot
of Asian buyers which are highly reliant
on these resources coming out from the
Middle East of via the Strait of Hormuz,
we've been seeing quite a number of
these refineries petrochemical crackers.
They've been cutting production.
They've been sending out notices to
customers to say, "Hey, we're not
getting our feedstock supply. So
unfortunately, we will have to deliver
fewer cargoes to you guys." And of
course
what we have interestingly what we have
noticed in within Asia as well because
it's such a huge continent is perhaps
the more affluent countries can actually
afford to bid higher for these cargoes,
which leave the countries that are less
affluent to be sort of bearing the brunt
of these all these supply crunches.
Rongwei, thank you, Rongwei. And you're
there. I'm sure your team has been busy
throughout [clears throat]
today here today. So, we're watching
very closely what goes on. I want to
come to the Asia impact. Also, when it
comes to these markets, right? Because
you're starting to see more policy
makers, officials are talking about
things to stabilize these markets.
Taiwan is the latest now. We're hearing
that the stabilization fund may convene
today to have a meeting on these
markets. We've already heard from the
Bank of Korea as well this morning.
Yeah, that headline on the Korea
crossing about 15 minutes back that the
BOK specifically is looking maybe
at a meeting to discuss the impact on
that, too. And that also goes into So,
everyone from monetary officials are
looking at their current accounts and if
they're staring at something
of a large deficit there, that obviously
is a currency conversation that they
need to be having. Equity markets, of
course, is a something different, of
course, in terms of stabilizing that.
And separate to that, of course, you
have energy officials looking at this.
And you know, we mentioned Korea, right?
Korea last week, conversations around
potential price caps, right? Is a
conversation. We need to talk about
China, for example,
and the conversation there around
limiting the exports of crude products
because of just how fluid the situation
is at the moment.
>> more on oil markets, let's bring in a
Bloomberg Intelligence analyst, Henik
Fong. He joins us here in the studios.
Henik, it's great to have you on the
program.
Are you surprised this morning that we
woke up to $100 oil?
Uh yes, a bit. I think there is a sharp
shift in view in the market. So, at the
very beginning of this tension,
basically many will expect this is maybe
like a small-scale restricted war, but
now,
as we move into, you know, this
situation, I think the view is changing.
So, the concern on oil supply disruption
is getting is steepening. It's
steepening. So,
um $100, I think it is um it is
you you know, within expectation.
>> It's quite a surprise, in fact, we're
not just at 100. Brent just crossed 112,
quite literally, a few seconds ago. How
do we need to be thinking about or
countries need to be thinking about
their energy security right now?
Well, um there are a couple of ways that
countries can, you know, deal with the
situation. Um but more or less, I think
they will, you know, suffer uh at the
end of the day. Um so, for example, here
in Asia, they rely heavily on Middle
East crude import. Mhm. Um Japan, South
Korea, um China. And I think China is in
a relatively better position than the
rest of Asia. Um the reason for that is
because um China doesn't only rely on,
you know, seaborne oil. They have
uh pipe connecting to Russia. They can
get uh Russian pipe crude. They can also
use the uh Northern Sea route to import
um LNG and also crude. So, um and also
China is sitting on a huge um strategic
petroleum reserves. Okay. Um so, um if
they follow the OECD guidance, um I
think it's they don't have to, but if
they follow, uh they are now sitting on
more than a billion barrels of oil
reserves. So, that would be more than
enough. I mean, taking into account all
these measures they have done, um they
would be okay for the next 8 to 10
months. So, so China might be better
positioned. How are you looking at the
rest of the region? Who who's the most
vulnerable right now?
I think Japan, um South Korea, and also
India. India, as you know, that they uh
already getting trying to get permit
from the US to um import the Russian
crude, right? So, um uh particular for I
mean, uh Japan and also South Korea,
they don't have any other, you know,
ways to import uh crude except, you
know, um through tankers. So, I think
they may be more vulnerable than the
rest of Asia. Are we missing any other
aspect that you think markets should be
paying attention to? So, we know about
potential disruptions, we know freight
costs, not freight costs, we know
uh shipping costs are going up as well.
What else do we need to be watching?
Well, um I think right now um the focus
is definitely on high oil prices but uh
supply disruption inflation, right?
Yeah. But I think the next step we
should be looking at is more on demand
destruction because if we look back to
the history,
um every time when oil spending as a
percentage of the world's GDP growth it
hit like uh over 12% um you know, it
start to come down because of demand
destruction. So, I'm not saying that
this time they will reverse uh when we
hit you know, 12%. It's now 10 10.5%
roughly. Um but definitely there is a
you know, a a possibility there.
Uh week two we've already reached $110
for oil. I mean, how are you looking at
your models right now? You know, where
where do you think oil prices can go
from here on forward?
>> Okay.
Um I think uh based on history like $4
risk premium they will push us to 100
but right now is already 110, right? So,
um I think if we use another model like
oil spending um 12.5% will be roughly
like $133 um at this moment. So, you
know, I'm not saying that at one moment
we have you know, we will reach 133 but
uh for the full year
if we have to reach 133 that will you
know, take us you know, peak to bottom
maybe 150 160 that's that's possible.
Depends on how how you know, how bad the
situation will be. That's Yeah, at 133
we've effectively doubled, right? Um
okay, uh we know you're going to be very
busy today. We will let you go and we
hope if we need you at some point we'll
give you a call. We'll see you later.
>> [laughter]
>> Thank you. Okay, Henning fantastic.
Thank you so much for the grateful for
the time. Uh Henning Fong there of
course our Bloomberg Intelligence senior
analyst for uh for energy. Guess what?
West Texas is now up 25%
>> [music]
>> uh today. We've now taken out 11340
on the most active contract there on New
York crude. Lots more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Right, welcome back. An update. Let's
start things off with Korea. So, circuit
breaker was triggered 20 minutes back.
Quite frankly, if you ask me, it's
probably a good time to not be open
right now given the price action right
now. Anyway, the markets resume trading
and we're now down 8.1, which really is
academic between 7 and 1/2 to 8 8.1. But
yeah, something we'll track, but that is
really I just underscores the price
action today.
>> And just, you know, we'll see what the
retail investors are doing cuz up until
last week they were actually net buyers
of of Korean shares. Take a look at how
these ETFs were performing as well. So,
you know, it's really dependent on what,
you know, mom and pop investors are
going to be doing there in Korea just
given that, you know, foreign investors
have in some ways been selling off
in the last couple of sessions. So, that
definitely gives a more and more risk to
this sort of market here, but right now
we're still seeing of course those 8%
losses for Korea extending further and
really deepening the sell-off there. On
terms of other sort of movers we're
watching out for given just the oil
price spikes that we've seen, the clear
loser has been of course the airlines as
well. Take a look at Quantas, take a
look at Cathay Pacific. We're seeing
losses of 5 to 6% here this morning. It
seems like it is the airlines, chips,
you know, really just sort of the whole
AI sort of play. You got to kind of toss
that to the side here right now because
it seems like these the headlines around
Iran is overpowering even the AI trade
here. You take a look at how some of
these even the national sort of
champions in China are doing. Capricorn
Tech, for example, is down close to 5%.
Yeah, um it's not a good day to be long
these markets. Um
silver lining is when you get
dislocations like this, they tend not to
last very long. But we'll see. This is a
very fluid [music] story. Lots more
ahead, of course, on the Middle East
conversation. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the HSI half hour in the
session. I hope you had a good rested
weekend because we are dealing with
quite a bit of volatility here on this
manic Monday just given that we woke up
to the reality of oil prices now well
above $110 here. This is we continue to
see oil traders the shift that we saw in
the narrative, right? I think last week
some were saying look this could maybe
not last too long. Now I think things
have changed people are at now pricing
in even a prolonged conflict and what
that may look like.
Yeah, I mean
it it tends to spook most everyone
including a producer, right? Because nor
you know oil north oil with three digits
is a politically untenable.
It starts to eat into demand. You can't
produce as much as people are willing to
buy.
In fact, I think last week our colleague
Linda had this really good conversation
with the bank or Banco Central
governor the BSP governor of the
Philippine Central Bank here and he
talked about $100 the threshold. So it's
really taking a lot of boxes that will
tick markets off and that's exactly the
sorry state of markets you're looking at
currently because of what's taking place
here, right? So
you know, who would have thought we'd be
writing a headline stocks are down 5%.
We're looking at West Texas up 25%.
That's exactly what we're seeing today
in these markets. Yeah, capitulation I
think is the word as we continue to see
this this sell-off deepen across the
Asia Pacific as we talk about, right?
It's it's really that haven demand to to
dollar
as the oil price where we continue to
see to to really kind of spike, right?
And and all the traditional havens that
we've we've been talking about whether
it's bond markets, whether it's even
gold are not behaving the way that they
should and the
the dollar is basically uh out as a a
very interesting and I guess uh complex
sort of winner in all this as well, this
flight to safety. So, there you go. Uh
you see S&P futures, euro futures are
doing this here right now. So, yes, that
Monday morning, I know the clocks have
changed, but yes, uh they're waking up a
a little bit earlier here to to really
see uh this pretty painful start to the
week here as we enter into a second week
of this Iran conflict. And EMFX, as Dave
has mentioned, falling out of bed here
this morning as well.
>> Okay, an update of Brent. We touched 113
a few minutes back. I think that's where
we we're trading still. In fact, now
West Texas is now trading more There's a
premium now on US crude over where you
are on the international contract.
Shanghai crude, of course, plus freight.
We're up 17%. Gold, as Ivana is pointing
out, of course, not acting currently as
a haven play. That's also falling out of
bed, which I think is also worth worth
pointing out to the to the downside
across the futures curve. A lot of the
the gains are being seen on the front
end of the curve. And really, when you
look at stocks, we thought they was
going to hold that 100-day moving
average yesterday Well, last week, uh
but the assumption was perhaps not that
oil was at 100 as where we are right
now. So, currently,
uh MSCI all country index to start up
the week has now taken out to the
downside this key support level at
100-day moving average. So, it has
faltered for now. That chart is coming
up on your screens very very shortly.
>> Yeah, we talked about Asian stocks in
the region already, you know,
technically enter that correction.
Taiwan certainly dragged that is in that
similar territory here when it comes to
correction in Taiwan, the TAIEX. Uh now
we're getting another headline with
Indonesia markets opening up. The rupiah
is now at a record low. Stocks also in
Jakarta set to enter a bear market. So,
we're talking about 20% losses from the
top uh that we saw uh just recently. So,
certainly, there's going to be a lot of
ongoing EMFX sort of pain across this
region given the fact that a lot of
these economies are, of course, oil
importers from the Middle East as well.
Uh let's bring in our team here. Our
Ruth Carson is Bloomberg's chief
correspondent for FX and rates in Asia.
Let's talk a little more about just
overall, the winner is still a clear
favorite, which is the dollar, Ruth.
Absolutely. There's a reason why it is
king dollar. It's getting a bid on all
sides, you know, from those looking for
that haven, the ultimate haven trade.
And there's also the fact that, you
know, the dollar is linked to the US.
You know, they are a huge oil exporter.
So, there's the petrodollar story really
fueling that bid as well. But, what's
interesting is the fact that none of the
other havens, perceived havens, are
actually working as a haven. It is pure
dollar playing here. Investors, whether
you are in Sydney or Tokyo or, you know,
when London wakes up in New York, you
see them piling again and again into the
greenback for this reason. There is
nothing like it when crisis hits.
Um
Ruth, I just to take the I guess the the
other side to that, is the dollar acting
like a haven or is it just markets were
not positioned and just simply
squaring positions? In other words, if
how do you how do we think dollar moves
from here?
Now that we've sort of reset.
Yeah, it's a great
Yeah, absolutely. And that's a great
question because everyone is game
planning what the fallout ultimately is
going to be for markets from the Iran
conflict. So, the dollar is obviously on
89% of all trades. It dominates world
trade. So, do you continue buying it
when it's had such an amazing bounce?
But, you're right, David, in the sense
that, you know, going into this
conflict, people were pricing in Fed
cuts. People were pricing in a weaker
dollar for 2026. Now, a lot of those
bets are now upended. Hedge funds, in
fact, um have pared back their bearish
dollar bets after the conflict. So, the
question is, do you continue bidding on
the dollar? As long as there's that
safety bid, we will continue to see
short-term dollar upside. But how long
this continues? Well, if oil continues
to flow and the conflict eases, we could
see a bounce down lower in the dollar.
Ruth, thank you. Ruth Carson there, our
chief correspondent for FX and rate in
the Asia Pacific. Quite a busy day of
course
uh for their team this Monday. Um oil
prices, we talked about this uh front
and center across the curve. We're now
trading at 113 on Brent and West Texas.
You have major Middle East producers now
curbing production.
There's just uh a storage is now become
an issue given of course some of the
transportation issues there
um and shipping issues. Laura Davison is
here with us, our politics editor to
take us through the latest What what's
caught your eye in the last 2 hours? Um
so, a couple different things. One, just
the sharp market reaction that we've
seen um as as Asian markets have opened.
Uh you know, it it this feels like
liberation day all over again of just
what you know, you're seeing sort of
markets in free fall. Question is, how
does Donald Trump interpret that over in
the White House? I think that the White
House has not been quite uh prepared for
kind of the steep market uh reactions
that we've seen. Uh that was ultimately
what what got him to pull back some of
those tariffs. Uh you know, will that
have the same effect? You know, Trump
has has repeatedly gone to social media
over the weekend and says, "You know,
look um oil price prices are going to
fall as soon as this is over." When is
that? That's a good question. Also, uh
his his most recent messaging tactic has
been uh "This is just a small price to
pay to uh you know, invade invade Iran
and and uh you know, take down uh this
enemy of the US." This is a uh you know,
sort of a question though is you know,
if US consumers are suddenly paying
five, six dollars a gallon uh per gas at
the pump in an election year, he has all
his allies on Capitol Hill who need to
run for re-election here in the next
couple months. You know, does this
suddenly really change the calculus for
Trump on uh you know, a war that is not
popular? You know, 60 plus percent of
Americans say they disapprove of this
conflict. And it's It's interesting you
mentioned the moves are similar to like
liberation day where when it comes to
trade policy, I think the US has a
better control of this, right? Well,
coming out of a war and ending a war is
much more complicated than that. You
talked about possible off-ramps moving
on. Now that we do have a new supreme
leader, which is the son of the of the
former,
what what what do we look at in terms of
potential off-ramps moving forward now?
Um there's a there's a couple different
things. Uh you know, Trump you know, has
said more recently that he wants regime
change. You know, this leader is not the
the regime that he wants to see in
place, but he's also started to
speculate that maybe you know, he's just
going to have to move on from that and
you know, isn't going to be able to have
control. In that case, he's going to be
looking for some other victory, some
sort of other tangible thing to say,
"Look, we were able to you know,
debilitate Iran's
military
capability or nuclear capability."
That's why we're seeing discussions
happening, you know, on in the military
level the US military side of is there
some sort of like special forces
operation sending a small number of
ground troops be able to you know, take
out some of the the enriched uranium or
or nuclear supplies. But also a tacit
acknowledgement that what they've been
able to do from the air yet hasn't
worked and this is a much riskier
operation, which you know, if this were
to fail would almost you know, certainly
escalate this conflict and take it into
an complete unknown. Yeah.
Uh in an election year, too. Uh Laura,
thank you so much. Laura Davison there
uh just laying out for us scenarios uh
not so much specific outcome because
it's very hard to to grasp at the
moment. Uh this goes into the other top
story, obviously China and how China
reacts as it pertains to its energy mix
and I think what's interesting too is
the inflation numbers
came out about 40 minutes back and we
did see a pick up to 1.3% there and you
got to wonder now within the energy
space in China, what then shows up
domestically and in what form, right?
And what part of the supply and value
chain that shows up upstream or do
consumers feel it in China given, of
course, China is a net oil importer and
also a net gas importer, too. Yeah, uh
certainly they are exposed of course to
what happens in the Middle East. Our
next guest is a senior research scholar
at the the on Global Energy Policy at
Columbia University School of
International and Public Affairs, Erica
Downs, joins us now from Washington.
Erica, thank you so much for staying up
with us. Uh we we've talked about the
disruptions that we've seen in this part
of the world. I think most of our guests
have talked about China being a little
bit more better positioned
in terms of energy security. Walk us
through how vulnerable do you think
China is to these disruptions that we're
seeing in the Strait of Hormuz?
Sure, happy to do so. So, China imports
about half of its crude oil and almost a
third of its LNG from the Middle East.
Almost all of that transits the Strait
of Hormuz. Uh so, that's a lot of oil
and LNG that's not getting to China
right now. However, China does have some
tools at its disposal to manage uh
disruption in its supplies from the
Middle East and through Hormuz. And the
main one is its strategic and commercial
oil reserves. China has been building
and filling strategic and commercial
reserves for over two decades precisely
to be prepared for a moment like this.
China has about 1.4 billion barrels in
storage. So, even if all of China's
crude oil imports from the Middle East
were cut off for the next 6 months,
China does have supplies that would
enough supplies that it would be able to
cover that.
Okay, so can we make the assumption
minimal disruption?
So, I think if China does choose to draw
down on its reserves, yes.
Minimal supply disruption. Um
LNG is a little bit of a different
story. Um my understanding is that
China's natural gas uh storage um is not
on par with with its oil storage. Um
however, if you look at China's LNG
imports from Qatar, uh then that counts
for
almost all of China's LNG imports um
from the Middle East, that's only about
6% of China's total uh natural gas
supplies, and that would be imports plus
domestic production combined.
Right.
How do you think this crisis does affect
the energy transition that China is
trying to undergo
right now? Uh where are we in terms of
the timeline here? Do you think that
this actually the situation Iran could
could actually shift or accelerate that
shift towards renewable energy and
really reduce its dependence on the
Middle East?
So, I think the current crisis in the
Middle East absolutely vindicates uh
China's big push to electrify
everything, notably road transport, and
I would not be surprised if we see the
turmoil in the Middle East prompting
China to sort of be even bigger and
bolder in terms of accelerating
uh its its move to energy and to
continue to electrify everything.
So, in terms of then
short-term alternatives,
uh and our reporter just earlier on
talked about how
cuz I think what's interesting is you
mentioned gas and obviously Qatar is a
massive global producer of gas, but
China also has Russia. I wonder what
options China can turn turn to
short-term so as not so as they avoid
dipping into their strategic reserves,
too.
So, I think short-term um there probably
is going to be a little bit of pain um
with respect to the disruption in
supplies from Qatar. Um however, China
is rich in coal resources, and so
switching to coal uh in the power
sector, for example, is something that
could be done. Um and then looking at
Russia, uh
Russia is China's largest supplier of
natural gas by both pipeline gas and
LNG. Right now, however, the power of
Siberia pipeline is operating slightly
above capacity and new pipeline capacity
from the Far Eastern route isn't
scheduled to come online until 2027.
So, there's not much that can be done in
terms of increasing
pipeline gas to Russia. There might be
more flexibility on the LNG side.
How are you assessing this Iran conflict
and war with with other previous
conflicts? If you you know, compare it
to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, for
example.
You know,
are we seeing the similar types of
crisis levels that we've been seeing in
terms of the energy impact to to this
part of the world or or you know, what
people are pricing in right now markets,
do you think it is a bit of an
overreaction?
So, looking at this again from the
perspective of China,
we're seeing a larger amount of oil
flows to China being disrupted from this
crisis than you know, from the
Russia-Ukraine war. So, you know, for
for Beijing, this is in in terms of
China's energy supply energy supply
security, this is a bigger deal.
Erica, a final question for you. The
um
Just looking longer term and I'm just
looking at the range of possibilities,
right? And this is obviously something
that is largely a tail risk or
unexpected.
In the event that Iran
under some future scenario falls under
or aligns more with the US,
how does that change the premium that
markets tend to build into that part of
the world because of just geopolitical
instability?
So, I think again, looking at this from
the the China perspective, I think that,
you know, China would be sort of will be
very sort of pragmatic in, you know,
sort of dealing with,
you know,
certainly the new leader that's in place
now,
and future leaders of the regime in Iran
as well.
Erica, thank you so much. Erica Downs
there, senior research scholar at the
Center on Global Energy Policy of
Columbia uh University. Thank you so
much. I know it's getting late, so we
appreciate the time. The State of
Markets Global Macro Movers for you
right now, it's black tile day. What we
mean by that is you're getting Z scores
where they shouldn't be, which is why
this black
uh hue is showing up across these
markets. When you get that, you know,
it's a very bad day cross asset across
[music] these markets.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Right, uh we're not making this up. Oil
prices are up 30% today.
Um
yeah, there's really no other way to
state that, but just as is. So,
we're up by a third across energy prices
just this Monday alone, given of course
what's
uh markets are pricing in, perhaps worst
case, that's the question mark right now
across these markets, but this is really
causing a massive pain point cross
assets today. Yeah, I think a few things
that have happened, right? When you have
this new supreme leader in Iran is now
the the son of the former Ayatollah
Khamenei, you know, that doesn't really
show regime change, and maybe it shows
that maybe things are going to be more
prolonged than we think in terms of this
conflict. And then you have, you know,
OPEC plus producers like the UAE, Kuwait
now joining the likes of Iraq and
cutting oil production. Um so it's not
just when it comes to inventories that
are now being, you know, continue to be
reduced and there's not much storage
around the world here. Straight of
Hormuz is still effectively closed
although some of these Iran linked or
some some Chinese vessels have been able
to go through but it's far and few
between right now. So there you go.
That's why you're seeing $118 for WTI
and Brent continuing to price in a
possibility of this being a prolonged
conflict there. Certainly the dollar is
the big winner is it reigns king once
again here in the face of all this as
well and because of that I think Asia is
definitely feeling the impact once
again, Dave. Yeah,
absolutely. Whenever the dollar does
this, everything else goes the goes the
up including, by the way, gold, right?
Gold as the as as the haven play. Right,
benchmarks about an hour, 50 minutes
into the cash market session, you have
Hong Kong at 25,000. We're below that
now. There we go.
3% of the Hang Seng index.
Might be a footnote today but it's
certainly going to be something we'll
talk about still is inflation in China
which came out 1.3%
about an hour back and the question
right now tying those two things
together in what way does the energy
price spike globally show up in Chinese
markets and whether or not that's a good
or a or a bad thing, Mona. Yeah, joining
us now is Hui Shan, chief China
economist at Goldman Sachs. We we
originally booked you on to talk about
NPC but there's only one sort of story
that's dominating these markets here
right now. Beyond just the energy
impact, do you see any sort of broader
economic implications for China in the
face of this Iran war?
Right, I think it from a macro point of
view, when you have a purely
supply-driven
oil price increase, it is a
stagflationary, right? It's not good for
growth but it will increase inflation. I
think the
reassuring point is that China did the
stockpile energy last year and they
probably feel pretty
prescient about that decision and then
China's inflation is a bit super low,
right? Um, inflation still negative. So,
some dose of inflationary impulse might
not be that bad. That said, this needs
to be managed and China has a stopped
exports of refined energy products and
so on. Um, so uncertainties are high. I
think this reinforces that at the two
sessions at the 15th of 5-year plan,
China has been zero focused on
technology and security, and this is
exactly why. Yeah, and so just to tie in
the inflation story that we just got
latest numbers.
Uh, good number, 1.3%. It's It's been a
while since we've had a number slightly
around that level. What do you make of
what's been driving that? Right, as a as
a data forecaster, macroeconomist, you
got to look through the noise and
identify the signal. Uh, 1.3, a lot of
that was a new year lunar new year
distortion. Uh, when you have a very
late Chinese New Year, January inflation
will be very low, February inflation
will be very high. You're better off
taking the average. That will give you
somewhere 7.8% uh, year-on-year CPI
inflation, uh, higher than last year,
um, but it's still relatively muted. And
PPI prices, can we start to see the
contractions and the deflation narrow a
bit just given the support that we've
been getting from commodity prices?
Right, the good news is that PPI
inflation is less distorted by the
timing of a lunar new year, so you are
getting a signal that it's climbing up
to less than minus uh, or or less than
higher than negative one percent and
negative and positive. Um, but here the
bad news is that when you again, when
you have upstream prices increasing too
much without demand supporting
downstream, then whoever is in the
middle is getting squeezed. My input
prices are rising, but I can't fully
pass on to downstream. So, I think it's
a kind of a um, a narrow uh, path that
if you can get a little bit of a, you
You about anti-evolution, that's also
supply side price increases. So, you
want to have a bit of a price
inflationary
impulse at the same time. It can't be
too much, otherwise a lot of companies
will feel the squeeze in the margins.
So, the that was one of the things they
talked about in the it was included in
the work report and some of the
briefings, of course, from economic
officials. You know, what what they're
doing to end this sort of deflationary
mindset. Um did anything stand out to
you as far as their efforts on getting
inflation going?
Um I think the narrative when you read
these government reports or documents,
you kind of get a sense of how important
this is is this, right? How many times
they emphasize it in what context uh do
they talk about in the documents, but
also the press conferences. So, we
gather the sense that inflation or or
stopping the deflationary pressures is
important to the government.
Um and that depends on the
anti-involution uh campaign and that's
having some impact. Um more importantly,
PPIs are very correlated with the global
commodity prices. We're here sitting
here talking about oil, but gas prices
other commodity prices are also
increasing, especially those are energy
intensive. So, that will have some pass
through and
you know, we're expecting PPI inflation
to turn positive
um you second quarter, third quarter of
this year.
Um some were a bit disappointed on what
came out in terms of consumption
policies. What how far do you think
these policies will go in really kind of
helping this recovery in consumption?
Yeah, in February we wrote a piece and
the title is why has the Chinese
government not done more to boost the
consumption? Because that is the number
one question investors have been asking
us because it's well known China's
economy's in balance, too much
investment, not enough consumption. Why
have they not done enough or more to
support consumption? And here we
introduce a framework. You got to ask
what the government is willing to do,
right? There are certain things that
just not willing to do. Um, you know,
large amount of uh
uh you know, handouts. That's just not
in the possibility set, right? And then
there's a capability issue. Um, revenue
growth is lower than expenditure growth.
You got to If you manage your own
finance, you got to prioritize, right?
So, the prioritization is uh security
technology that that left the less for
spending on consumption. And that's why
they prefer things that cost less,
right? Interest-free subsidy, that costs
you less. Uh trading program, I
subsidize 10%, 20%. You spend $100. So,
that's the cost-efficient. Uh giving you
more vacation times, that doesn't cost a
lot, right? So, you got to think about
the the way uh Chinese government are
framing or they certainly want to
increase the consumption share of GDP,
um but there is a limit to what they are
willing to do and able to do. Did
anything else stand out among the many
briefings and many numbers that that
came out with in terms of the budget and
everything else? Yeah, I think it the
broad-brush conclusions, the growth
target, the fiscal uh you know,
government bond quota issuance, those
are very much in line with market
expectations.
What's interesting is more in the
nuances, right? They talk about we want
the growth target to be 4 1/2 to 5, but
we will strive for better outcome. Uh
And they talk about the government bond
issuance quota, you add up all the
numbers exactly the same as last year,
but they're increasing some of the
you can call it the policy bank support
or other type of resources not in the
government bond domain, right? So,
there's a lot of little things that and
even in the um uh press conference, they
talk about LGFV, number of LGFV has
declined to 70%. So, there's the little
signals I find quite interesting in
observing Chinese economy. Okay. Yeah,
it's a good starting point, and we'll
see how those stories unfold this year.
Weishan, as always, of Of thank you so
much. Fantastic to that to hit that
nuance for us there, chief China
economist at Goldman Sachs. An update of
these markets,
do you want to do the damage report or
should I?
>> I mean, we we got it, right?
You you take a look at what it comes to
a steep losses when it comes to Japan,
Korea, Taiwan. Vietnam is sort of joined
into the fray as well. We have entered
into correction territory as well after
that 11% [music] slide from the highs
that we saw just the 2 months ago as
well. Uh so certainly continue to trace
[music] the fallout here, the volatility
across these markets as we wake up of
course now 110 oil.
Yeah, in fact, I think we're 100 I think
we're probably closer to 120.
Um
we're up 30% in oil prices. [music] It's
hitting Japan. It's going to its lunch
break, too. And we'll talk more in the
moment of course and what the
something else that's come up is that
regulators have come in
uh discussing stabilization measures
[music] when it comes to these markets.
More in that part of the story just
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> It's a supply shock, which means we have
we don't really have the
the major tools [music] to control it.
But it's possible that that $100 a
barrel
then we will begin to breach what we
call our [music]
tolerance range. We breach 4%.
Then we have to do something with
monetary policy.
That was the Philippines Central Bank
Governor Eli Remolona there speaking to
us just last week about you know $100 is
sort of the threshold here really that
you know central banks in that part of
the world are really kind of facing,
right? And that you know do they need to
start kind of changing
strategy in terms of their reaction
functions if we have to deal with triple
digit oil. Does that mean that you know
for sure rate cuts you know are now a
kind of
you know, distinct as something that's
more far away, I guess.
Um even the possibility of hikes is
something that they really need to kind
of contend with now.
>> It's really changed because the for the
central banks that were on the fence,
clearly hikes are now the next move
based on pricing.
Uh those that probably had one or two
more cuts on the table have now shifted
in terms of
uh the tightening right now and I think
it's
you know, the the reaction function
across markets becomes even more
magnified and exponentially
gets to that point even further once you
cross 100 bucks, whether that's
psychologically, whether that becomes a
political
uh politically untenable, of course, uh
for most and you know, when you look at
current account deficits, particularly
when you look at EM economies, they tend
to react
uh a lot more disproportionately
uh just because of how expensive oil can
get and how painful get that's
politically, of course, uh as far as the
pump is concerned, right? So, I think
when you look at how Asia is trading, I
think case in point
is that markets that have
the attempt to import a lot of oil
uh that tend to have lower GDP per
capita, like the Philippines, for
example, and why the reaction
reactionary function is is is the way it
is,
is that's the way markets are treating
it. We're down 5% there. Vietnam is
coming online. We're set for a
correction there. Indonesia is set for a
bear market, I believe. Asia is set for
a correct We could go on and on, but
yes, we're not
we're not doing well across these
markets. In fact, Asia right now, have a
look at sectors, everything but energy
is up and of course on the on the FX
side of things, which is the bottom row,
second to the right, Bloomberg Asia
Dollar Index, we're down half of 1%.
That's a That's not a move you normally
see for a benchmark on currencies, but
that's the type of day we're in right
now.
>> Yeah, rupee is at a record low. We've
been talking a little bit more about,
you know, the the energy complex of
things and certainly, you know, we've
we've talked about really it's crude,
it's LNG, but now you're starting to see
a bit more of that spillover in in other
parts of the markets. And you look at
Malaysian palm oil futures, for example,
they just started opening up. We're
jumping almost 10% for those. So, that
certainly will have a bit more, you
know, impact when it comes to food
prices on this whole dynamic as well and
what central banks have to deal with
that.
Yeah, okay. Let's take a breath for now
and the headline [clears throat] is oil
prices are up 30%
today.
Where does that leave markets? And is it
a good time actually to have the option
or the liquidity in the public markets
or is it good to be in the private
markets where you really can't do
anything because it's it's you know,
things you do give up the liquidity and
you have the premium built in there, of
course. Well, let's get a sense of
really how this is affecting these
markets right now because you know, some
have really turned to other things like
the dollar. Joining us exclusively right
now to talk us through the private
market side of the conversation from
Sydney
is Su-Ann
head of APAC private wealth at EQT.
Su-Ann, good morning and I was hoping we
could have this first conversation under
better circumstances, but this is this
is where we are.
I'm curious, what is the
you speaking with your clients, what's
the mood on what's the mood of the
ground like?
Yeah, so at this point with in engaging
with a lot of private wealth investors,
I think a lot of investors are very
worried about the volatility in markets,
but I think volatility in public markets
is actually quite normal at this point,
especially with everything that's
happening. But at the end of the day, I
think given that we advocate a huge
better bigger allocation to private
markets, I think the strategic asset
allocation of each investor's portfolio
becomes even more crucial now.
Mhm.
So, I'm just wondering, I mean, just
given what we're seeing when it it comes
to geopolitics, and then there there's
the wobbles that we're seeing around
private credit as well, right? When
you're talking about, you know,
big firms are are limiting withdrawals
and and and all that here. Does that in
any way shake up the confidence around
private markets in any way?
Yeah, so what first and foremost is EQT
Partners actually doesn't do any private
credit, but as as we only focus on
active ownership strategies. But that
being said, it's true that within the
markets, I think private credit has
grown a lot and and and any fast-paced
market that's grown that level, there's
bound to be a shake-up in quality and
dispersion of managers.
I think this question actually
highlights a very very important point,
which is diversification for end
investors. At the end of the day, it's
best not to over concentrate in any one
particular asset class or region or
sector, and EQT provides that
diversification through Europe and Asia
being the largest non-US private equity
markets and investor out there.
Okay, and talk to us about recent flows
and whether or not you think I think you
bring up a very good point that what's
been taking place in the last week and a
half in the Middle East
might simply bolster the need to just,
let you know, just look for something
that's uncorrelated or largely
uncorrelated to the public market.
What have What's the momentum of flows
you've seen recently and do you think
we'll get more headed your way?
Yeah, so in fact, we're actually in the
beginning of a structural reallocation
and structural shift for individual
private investors to move their capital
into private markets. And in fact, I
think at this stage, we're probably only
in the single digits or low single
digits of portfolio allocation to
private markets. And we strongly believe
that we are in the early innings and
that will start to shift dramatically.
And we believe that with the volatility
in public markets, there will be a need
to look for things that are more
uncorrelated, things that can
potentially still outperform.
and most importantly is that the average
company today actually stays private for
at least 14 years. And there is a need
if you would like to continue to get
exposed to innovation and growth in the
markets that you continue to look at
private markets.
Mhm.
Um, tell us where you're seeing, you
know, as flows, right? I think China, I
think Taiwan has been a very big source
of of wealth of late. I'm just
wondering, where do you think that sort
of wealth is going? And maybe tell us
about what you're seeing in Australia
where you are right now, too.
Yeah, I think um I think going back to
the the key point here is the the
diversification element is something
that we hear a lot from investors that
they are constantly looking to diversify
what they hold. In Australia,
particularly with a lot of them having
domestic holdings, a lot of them are
looking outwards into what are the
potential things that they can diversify
into. And so for EQT, as I mentioned, we
are we we we have a lot of investments
in Europe and Asia. And that's a really
good source of diversification for them.
You mentioned China. China is actually
an important piece of our past and
future. Continues to be part an
important part of our future as well. So
our founding family, the Wallenberg
family, actually has a long history in
China. And in fact, last year was the
75th year anniversary of Sweden and
China. And China continues to be a
source of wealth and innovation, and it
continues to continues to be an
important part of our future as well.
Yeah, so strategically, tangibly, what
are you guys doing to expand that
footprint in China given given that
backdrop?
Yeah, so as as
it still remains an important part of
our future as it is in our history as
well.
We are exploring ways to work with
private investors in China.
Yeah, can you tell us a little more
about I mean, people are really
anticipating this whole QFLP program. I
know you might not be able to to share
details, but can you tell us a little
more what you can at this moment in
terms of how you're preparing
for for this sort of launch in some ways
and and what opportunities might emerge
from it?
Yeah, I think just with any investors,
the Chinese investor is also looking for
a diversification outside of what they
hold in domestically as well. So this
program, the QDLP program, will help
help the individual investor in China to
diversify away from their domestic
holdings. And so we are we are exploring
that license at the moment and we're
working on it. So we'll come back to you
with a timeline when we have one.
All right, Su-Lin, we're going to leave
it there. Thank you, Su-Lin Yo, head of
APAC Private Wealth at EQT joining us
out of Sydney here this morning. Enjoy
your trip, of course, to Australia. Of
course, private credit is the topic of
our big take today with high-profile
blow-ups that are rattling investors.
You can read all about it on the
terminal if you're a subscriber. That is
going to be on bloomberg.com.
Of course, we are still checking markets
here right now, right? Just given all
we've been hearing when it comes to
policymakers, what they're doing when it
comes to energy security, what they're
doing to stabilize markets, there's
plenty on tap. Yeah, and we're hearing
from the South Koreans now. They're
calling for active response given to all
the market. Well, and it it's worth
pointing out that the
the South Koreans and the Japanese and
I'll even include maybe the Taiwanese
have a very sensitive
uh
reactionary function to to this types of
moves we're seeing, particularly when
you get the currency moves like the
types we're seeing today. Let alone
equity markets aside, right? It's really
where the currency markets and a weak
currency and an expensive oil price that
has the tendency that's the transmission
effect to when it becomes a fundamental
uh story that hits fundamentals, rather.
Yeah, I mean I think most guests up
until now have said this is really kind
of a positioning sort of thing and why
you're seeing the wash out uh in the
Kospi, why you're seeing that wash out
continue on Taiwan cuz they have been
doing very well, right? I mean, if you
take a look at what we saw in terms of
the sell-off last week for Asian stocks,
We're down some 6%. You compare that to
the US, it seems like they're pretty big
moves, right? The S&P was only down by
about 2% last week. But, we're still
talking about a year-to-date, we're
still talking about gains right now. We
might wipe those out maybe today alone.
Uh but then again, we are sitting at a
pretty more better position spot than
maybe uh other markets are. Uh so,
certainly there is that cushion effect
in some ways. But then again, some of
these moves are quite pronounced here.
And yeah, when you're talking about it's
sort of a double whammy when you have a
oil price spike a dollar spike, that
tends to be a pretty bad cocktail for
Asian assets.
>> I mean, it really is. Let me Let me use
a I just thought about Let me use a uh a
medical analogy, right? So, when when
oil goes above 100
>> you turned to medical, yeah. No, but
it's the same Okay, say Okay, same
thing. So,
>> need a little bit of a dose of both
here. So, like so your reactionary
function changes after say a third
drink. That's your threshold, right? For
example, let's say that's your
threshold. I don't know what your
threshold is. [laughter]
No, but when oil goes above 100, it's
almost like when someone develops
diabetes, right? Everything else just
gets worse progressively and
exponentially from that point in time.
So, how markets react, how authorities
and regulators react
>> Yeah. from 95 to 105, that is very
different. And I think when you look at
markets today, that's exactly Let alone
when oil prices are up 30% to 120 bucks.
There we go. Anyway, uh further updates
coming up next. This is [music]
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Seeing the Middle East engulfed in
flames, I want to say that
this is a war
that should not have happened.
Once again, China [music] calls for an
immediate stop to military operations to
avoid the spiraling escalation of the
[music] situation and prevent the
conflict from spilling over and
spreading.
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi there
speaking about the war in Iran during
his annual meeting media briefing at the
NPC. You take a look at the benchmarks
here, you know, 2% losses are not that
bad, I got to say,
compared to the rest of the region here
today. So, relatively speaking,
you know, China is doing okay, but we're
still seeing losses of 700 points in the
Hang Seng here today. And of course,
we're watching very closely what goes on
when it comes to the currency, where
these dollar moves are getting even more
and more pronounced right now. Yeah,
they are.
Let's let's have a closer look at that,
too, because in terms of what the the
China role to this beyond the response
itself that we've heard so far. So, Wang
Yi did speak even as of course the US
and Israeli strikes continued on China's
strategic partner, Iran, in the signal
that the leadership intends to shield
its relationship with Washington from
the war. Minmin Low is in Beijing for
us, our China correspondent, to talk us
through of course
what was the key takeaway from that
briefing on the weekend here out of the
foreign out of the foreign ministry.
Well, David, you heard the soundbite
from the Foreign Minister Wang Yi
earlier talking about Iran, and he
repeated the lines we have often heard
from the Foreign Ministry, right? Still
providing no more than rhetorical
support to Iran. He made a veiled dig at
the US, saying that major countries
should play a constructive role in that
conflict. But I think it's interesting
the way he characterizes the US-China
relations with surprisingly quite
measured and even quite optimistic. He
said that this could be a landmark year
for sustainable development in US-China
ties if both sides remain sincere. And
he even lauded how the two leaders have
so far shown a good example of
maintaining interactions at the highest
level. He said all that needs to be done
now is to continue to make thorough
preparation to create a conducive
environment to manage their differences.
So, this is a clear signal that China
appears unlikely to want to let Iran
overshadow or derail that US-China
relations. And Wang Yi also importantly
said that head of state diplomacy is
irreplaceable. And this is a clearest
signal that China will likely want to
keep that opportunity to have the
face-to-face meeting between Trump and
Xi to really iron out all the plethora
of issues that they have to discuss
because of course the stakes are
extremely high for China. If you have
stable US-China relations, that means
lower tariffs, perhaps less tightening
of those tech restrictions, and that
will have important implications for an
economy that is struggling with
prolonged deflation and a consumer
sentiment that has been very weak so
far.
Yeah, you mentioned that stability with
the US and China relationship is key. As
we get closer to that meeting between
Presidents Trump and Xi, there there's
our sources telling us of this potential
Boeing deal that could be quite
significant. Tell us more about that.
So, we understand from sources that
Boeing is close to sealing a deal that
would sell 500 of its Max 737 Boeing
aircraft to China. And if if this comes
through, it would be a major
breakthrough that would end a lengthy
drought in Chinese purchases of Boeing
aircraft since uh Trump's first term in
office. We understand that separately
there's another deal under discussion,
the sale of about 100 or so wide-body
aircraft that could be concluded later
that might not be announced as part of
the C-Trump summit. But again, the the
fate of this company is going to be
closely tied to how the geopolitical
winds are blowing because Trump has been
known to uh use the plane maker to
sweeten deals with other countries. And
sources are telling us that the deal is
not finalized. It could be scuttled if
those talks come to an impasse. And of
course that is just one of the items on
the agenda. Other things that could be
discussed would be China's soybean
purchases, for example. And of course
the US
uh mulling that uh consideration to cap
the sale of H200 chips to China as well.
And of course Taiwan Foreign Minister
Wang Yi mentioned this particularly at
the press conference over the weekend.
Very strong words warning that any
country or individuals that try to
oppose China's reunification of the
motherland shall perish.
Speaking of strong words, we heard some
fairly strong stance coming through out
of President Xi Jinping.
This warning
against disloyal members of the
military. What do we know about that?
Yeah, it's President Xi was calling on
the military not to shield any officials
while disloyal or corrupt and asked
calling for this continued expansion of
that anti-corruption purge. And this is
his most direct comment yet on the
anti-corruption campaign after the
ousting of Dong Yu Shan who was once the
number two highest ranking official in
the Chinese military. And so far we had
seen that purge already
ousted a former defense minister,
members of the Central Military
Commission and dozens of you know over a
dozen senior generals and many of these
fallen officials do have ties with one
another. So there could be an
investigation in a broader network and
President Xi was saying that there needs
to be a more accurate assessment of
officials that are promoted to higher
leadership in the military. He also
called for heightened supervision of
projects, quality control and spending.
And this is crucial because it's coming
at a time that China had reduced the
budget allocated to the military to 7%
versus 7.2% over the previous few years.
And it dovetails with the comments we
heard from Finance Minister Lan Fo'an on
Friday at the economic press briefing
where he said government funds are not
unlimited and every dollar needs to be
stretched. The government is sort of
embarking on this belt-tightening
campaign and that's that the importance
of getting the military's act together
is also all the more important in order
to put credibility behind China's words,
especially after Wang Yi's strong
remarks about Taiwan and about Japan as
well. Wang Yi also mentioned that China
will never allow any country to colonize
Taiwan again the way Japan had done in
the Second World War. And this is of
course in relation to Takaichi's remarks
about Taiwan, which China says is
hollowing out the pacifist
constitution of Japan.
China correspondent Mimi Lo there
joining us live out of Beijing. Of all
things China, certainly what has been a
very eventful weekend as well. We take a
look at what it comes to the eventful
sort of day we're in store for here. We
continue to see
pretty painful sort of risk assets here
today, right? Take a look at Taipei,
take a look at what it comes to Korea.
That is where you're seeing most of the
pain.
And really dollar and and is continued
to be the king when you take like EMFX
here as well, where we are seeing pretty
record sort of levels here when it comes
to the rupiah and a lot of this part of
the world. So certainly that's one thing
to watch. We are officially in a
correction territory for Asian stocks as
well. And yes, I think now that we've
reached close to $120 oil, we're still
wondering what now.
Yeah, I mean, if you if your market has
done well, you're probably not doing
well today. If you're an oil importer,
you're probably not doing well today. If
you're in EM markets, you're probably
not doing well today. If you tick all
three boxes, then that's probably why
you're underperforming quite
substantially today. So I think Korea,
Taiwan are very good examples of that.
Just an update of course of some of the
strikes across that part of the world
and what we know so far. And as you can
see, we understand that there have been
another round of course across the last
few hours or so. Given we're all, you
know, in case you missed it, right? Why
is oil where it is? You're getting big
producers that have halted production,
not completely, but you have big
producers that have halted production
across some key
projects and oilfields given where you
are when it comes to refineries and
stockpiles and storage is now an issue
given I guess the some of the logistical
bottlenecks that yeah you can't really
send stuff out now given And you look at
what the US position is, where the Iran
position is, and it seems like both
sides are still digging their heels,
right? When you have the son of the
former supreme leader now the leader of
Iran, that does in some ways signal
continuity, right? And that perhaps
>> that perhaps Iran's not really changing
their tack in any way now that they have
announced this new leader. So, there is
no regime change as some are now
signaling here as well. And when it
comes to President Trump saying, "Look,
this is just a short-term price to pay
$100 oil for now in this war." So,
certainly it doesn't seem like both
sides are easing in any way. I think
that's why you're seeing that price
premium really built out in a big big
way on this Monday morning. We'll check
of course some more moves after this
break here. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Uh right, an update here
of the Department [music] of Energy.
This is out of the Philippines, which is
really the market that is one of the
standouts to the downside in the
currency markets and the equity markets.
[music] It's a big oil importer as well.
The central bank governor has said 100
is the threshold there that they're
looking to source oil from America and
us just to I guess diversify among the
many things we've heard this morning so
far. Yeah, you know, you hear countries
like Japan, you know, they're ensuring
the stable energy supply. Are these
economies going to have to really tap
into their strategic reserves? That
certainly is one question. I think the
general consensus we get on China is
that they are better positioned in that
front and and they do still have that
option to basically electrify
everything, right? This does actually
ramp up a lot of their plans for energy
transition and renewable energy and the
like here, but the rest of the world may
not be as as as lucky in some ways just
given the fact that where they are in
this whole energy transition. So yes, we
heard that from even just the market
implications as well. Taiwan, they're
saying the stabilization fund may hold
that emergency meeting today as well. Uh
South Korea also looking into that, too.
>> [music]
>> Yeah, uh and you'll understand why
they're talking about these things
specifically when you look at how the
markets are reacting right now. We'll
wrap the show with this, a look across
assets, equities, forex, [music]
commodities, and bonds.
And it's a terrible day [music] to be
long these markets. This is Bloomberg.